Improved glossary (#199)
eu-cdse/documentation: APIs/openEO/Glossary.qmd

  a (standardized) communication protocol, for example between a client application and back-end service
- **client**: Software tool, framework or environment that an end-user directly interacts with.
  For example: a Jupyter notebook, a Python script/application, an RStudio session, a JavaScript based web app, etc.
- **(cloud) back-end**: server; computer infrastructure (one or more physical computers or virtual machines) used for storing EO data and processing it

> - **big Earth observation cloud back-end**: server infrastructure where industry and researchers analyse large amounts of EO data

Author: Updated the sentence as suggested

> - **big Earth observation cloud back-end**: server infrastructure where industry and researchers analyse large amounts of EO data

Reviewer: I'm not seeing any change, have you pushed your latest changes?

> - **big Earth observation cloud back-end**: server infrastructure where industry and researchers analyse large amounts of EO data

Author: My apologies; though staged, I committed only old changes. Now, the sentence is changed and kept a single backend definition without making a distinction.

## Processes

A **process** is an operation that performs a specific task on a set of parameters and returns a result. An example is computing a statistical operation, such as mean or median, on selected EO data. A process is similar to a function or method in programming languages.

A **pre-defined process** is a process provided by the *back-end*, 
typically [one of the processes centrally defined by openeo.org](https://processes.openeo.org/){target="_blank"}.

A **user-defined process** is a process defined by the *user*. 
It can directly be part of another process graph or be stored as custom process on a back-end. 
Internally it is a *process graph* with optional additional metadata.

A **process graph** chains specific process calls from the set of pre-defined and user-defined processes together. A process graph itself is a (user-defined) process again. Similarly to scripts in the context of programming, process graphs organize and automate the execution of one or more processes that could alternatively be executed individually.

## EO data (Collections)

> In our domain, different terms are used to describe EO data(sets). Within openEO, a **granule** (sometimes also called *item* or *asset* in the specification) typically refers to a limited area and a single overpass leading to a very short observation period (seconds) or a temporal aggregation of such data (e.g. for 16-day MODIS composites). A **collection** is a sequence of granules sharing the same product specification. It typically corresponds to the series of products derived from data acquired by a sensor on board a satellite and having the same mode of operation.

Reviewer: > In our domain,

In the Earth Observation domain, 

> on board a satellite

on board of a satellite

Author: corrected

## Vector data

In general, **vector data** represent specific things (also called "features") in a space, e.g. on the surface of the Earth. It comprises of individual points stored as coordinate pairs that indicate a physical location in the world.  These points can be joined, in a particular order, to form lines or joined into closed areas to form polygons. 

A **coordinate** represents a specific point in space.

A **feature** is a thing that usually has a geometry (e.g. the outline of an agricultural field, a forest or an urban area) and it may have additional properties assigned (e.g. a name, a color or a population).
In rare cases features may not have a geometry, which is often referred to as an "empty geometry".

**Geometries** consist of one or more coordinates that may be connected and then form a specific type of geometry, e.g. two points can be connected to a straight line and four straight lines can be connected to rectangle.

Commonly used types of geometries are:
- Point
- LineString (connected straight line pieces)
- Polygon (connected straight line pieces forming a closed ring, possibly with holes - for example a triangle or rectangle)

> A collection of geometries of the same type can be grouped together, forming what is known as a "multi-point" or "multi-polygon." It's important to understand that a multipolygon is essentially just a gathering of several polygons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Further more, these base geometries can be grouped to form, for example, so-called "multi-point" or "multi-polygon" geometries. It's important to note that these multi-geometries act as single entities with regard to their associated properties.
```

Author: updated

Special cases are raster and [vector datacubes](https://r-spatial.org/r/2022/09/12/vdc.html){target="_blank"}.
Learn more about datacubes in the [datacube documentation](https://openeo.org/documentation/1.0/datacubes.html){target="_blank"}.

## Vector data

> In general, **vector data** represent specific things (also called "features") in a space, e.g. on the surface of the Earth.

Reviewer: This description also matches raster data

Author: updated the sentence

A **coordinate** represents a specific point in space.

A **feature** is a thing that usually has a geometry (e.g. the outline of an agricultural field, a forest or an urban area) and it may have additional properties assigned (e.g. a name, a color or a population).
In rare cases features may not have a geometry, which is often referred to as an "empty geometry".

**Geometries** consist of one or more coordinates that may be connected and then form a specific type of geometry, e.g. two points can be connected to a straight line and four straight lines can be connected to rectangle.

Commonly used types of geometries are:
- Point
- LineString (connected straight line pieces)
- Polygon (connected straight line pieces forming a closed ring, possibly with holes - for example a triangle or rectangle)

> Multiple geometries of the same type can be combined into a group of geometries, e.g. a so-called "multi point" or  "multi polygon".

Reviewer: It should be made more clear that a multi-polygon is to be considered to be a single geometry, now it looks like it is a group of geometries, like a feature collection in GeoJSON-speak

Author: Rephrase it
